---
title: "Asia: Day 4"
date: 2016-02-29
features:
- a local breakfast
- a slight separation anxiety
- a new favorite food
---

I got up at an average time this morning and took a shower. I had this picture
in my mind of how the showers would be—public, dirty, small—and was relieved to
learn that my fear was misplaced. They weren’t covered in marble, of course, but
they were very accommodating all the same. Past all of the rooms there was a
common area with a half-ring of bathroom stalls on one side and a half-ring of
shower stalls next to it. Inside each stall there was a space to put toiletries
and a rod to hang a towel and clean clothes. Best of all, though, there was hot
water!

When I got back to the room, my bunkmate was there, and we chatted and got to
know each other a bit more. I showed him where I lived in the States; in return,
he showed me an app that’s very common in China, WeChat, and we added each other
as friends, even though I didn’t expect to talk to him that much given that he
would be leaving Shanghai the next day.

I confessed to him that I hadn’t eaten breakfast yet, and he walked me down the
street and led me to a small shop on the corner that sold bao, white puffy
breadthings folded over with meat or vegetables. The signs were in Mandarin, but
he translated for me, and I ordered three of the buns. He also told me to get
soybean milk, which I was fascinated to learn is made by simply throwing
soybeans and water into a blender. It was warm and I drank it in a plastic cup
through a straw. All told, the meal was 7.5 yuan, which came out to about $1.25!

After that, we went back to the room, and while we were talking, a couple of
guys opened the door and dropped off their bags. We said hi and I asked them
about themselves. They said they were students from France and were here to
attend a university in another city in China, but they didn’t have any housing
details worked out yet and were stopping over in Shanghai.

I had to leave, so I packed away my things, said goodbye, and headed downstairs.
Ben had texted me that he and the guys had assembled at the Apple Store on
Nanjing Road, so I walked down and met them there. There were only four people
in the party, and we needed to meet up with the fifth person, who had apparently
moved from the Andaz, which was in Xintiandi, to the Fairmont Hotel, which was
along the Bund. So we walked down until we reached the hotel.

Of course, this place was very fancy, although since it is part of a British
family of hotels, the decor had a very classic look to it, as opposed to the
cutting edge minimalism of the Park Hyatt and Andaz or the artistic
multiculturalist feel of the Grand Hyatt. In fact, if one wanted to learn about
the history of the hotel and its heritage, there were posters that contained all
sorts of information lined up in the main atrium.

No one was interested in that, though, and we took the elevator up to the
rooftop bar instead. It was nice to go up to the edge and see the skyline from
this height. We sat down at a table and waited for the missing traveler, who
after a few minutes, arrived with all of his bags. There was no one else but us
here, and I felt uneasy, considering that I didn’t really belong in the group.
Again, though, I waited it out as the others proudly recounted destinations
they’d gone to and and routes that they’d strategically planned using this or
that method.

Finally, it was time for them to go, as they had to go back to the airport to
catch their flights. We separated then, and I began walking back to the hostel.
This was it—I was alone now. I would have to figure out places to go eat and
sleep and things to do, all without any guidance. I dismissed the thought.
Everything would be fine.

I arrived back at my temporary home and hung out in the lounge area, writing
until my computer ran out of juice. That was intentional, because I needed to
get out again. I had two goals: I not only needed to recharge my computer—which
meant I needed to find a coffee shop—but I also needed to find some new pants.
It had gotten cold outside, and even though my travel pants had many
features—they could dry quickly if they got wet, they could convert easily to
shorts, and they had zippered and velcro pockets that had proved very useful so
far to stash money and other valuables—they had one critical shortcoming, which
was that they were so thin that the wind whipped straight through them. So I
went back to the room, opened my backpack, and pulled out my daypack, something
I was glad to finally make use of. I stuffed my computer inside it, cinched it
up, and headed out.

I wandered up and down Nanjing Road. This is a very popular pedestrian road, and
lining it are all sorts of shops and restaurants to attract foreigners and
locals alike—Apple, Gap, and Uniqlo, to name a few. Unfortunately, despite the
selection, there were no coffee shops. As for plan B, I was hesitant to simply
walk into a store that sold pants. I didn’t quite know if I really wanted to get
them after all—they were going to be useless after five days, so why bother?

After a while, I realized that I was hungry. Perhaps the search could be
suspended for a bit. I came to a building that had the words “Shanghai First
Foodhall” on it. The doors were open, and people were coming and going. I was
curious. I entered the building to find a kind of store, where ladies were
selling food items—snacks, perhaps, or toppings for food—in plastic packages. A
sign indicated that there were three floors, and the top floor contained some
restaurants. I rode the escalator up. There were a few choices, and I made a lap
around the floor to evaluate them. I was looking for a menu in English, and a
place called Old Shanghai Snack Dishes had one on display. Despite the odd name,
this seemed promising.

A lady at the front gave me a menu and I sat down to browse through it. One of
the items looked delicious: a hotpot with beef and rice. It turns out that
besides bao, hotpots are somewhat of a staple in China, because I ended up
seeing them in shops and other restaurants later. But at the moment, I had no
idea what to expect, and so when it came out sizzling like fajitas at a Mexican
restaurant, I was elated. It was served in a round cast iron bowl set on a
wooden board, and it was indeed very hot. I also ordered kumquat juice, which I
hadn’t seen on a menu before, either, as well as a bowl with noodles and duck
leg and five spring rolls. The whole meal cost about twelve dollars, which was
pretty good, I thought, considering how much I ordered.

I paid for the food, said *xièxie*—thank you—and went back down to the street. I
still needed to find a coffee shop, but the sun had just set, and I felt like it
would be safer if I were inside when it was dark and not out on the streets.

On the way back, I thought about wanting to buy pants again and hopped into the
Uniqlo store I’d spotted earlier. But after looking at the tags, I thought to
myself that the sizes they use in China probably don’t match the sizes that we
use in the U.S. A quick search on my phone confirmed this fact. It wasn’t worth
the trouble. I exited the store and continued walking.

A few streets later, I managed to find a Starbucks. Great! I ordered a latté,
spotted an outlet, and chose a seat next to it. I pulled out my computer only to
realize—I didn’t have a plug that fit. Of course—I should have seen that. I knew
that I had been able to charge my phone and camera at the hostel, but I hadn’t
thought about why. They had two-prong plugs, and outlets in China support those
just fine; but three-prong plugs are a different story, and don’t work without
some kind of adapter.

It was okay. I could live without my computer for a while. I pulled out my
Kindle and read instead.

When I finally got back to the room a couple of hours later, I was fairly
exhausted, and though it was early, I crashed as soon as I got into bed.
