---
title: "Asia: Days 10-15"
date: 2016-03-10
features:
- a lion city
- a perfect city
- thoughtfuless in all things
---

*I spent five days in Singapore. I don’t have any stories to tell of sticky
situations I found myself in or crazy adventures I lived through. (Those are
coming later, most likely.) I did check out the city, and I’ll talk about that
here. But I also made plenty of observations walking around that I wanted to
share as well.*

If Singapore had a slogan, it would be “thoughtful in all things”.

Everyone’s first impression of any city is usually in a plane. And from high up,
the city looks good. Boats are spread out over the water, and on land, there are
grassy areas shaped like golf courses, crisp and green, followed by building
complexes and houses arranged in an orderly fashion.

The airport is modern and attractive. The letters in the “Arrivals” sign are
enveloped in lively leaves. The carpet floor leading downstairs has a colorful
weaved pattern. In the passport check lobby, the floor is marble. The
“Immigration” sign is styled in a well-respected font. The escalators leading up
to the final floor are actually travelators, like the ones at IKEA: you can put
a cart on it if you like, and the cart locks on the conveyor so it won’t roll
backward. The screens that list flights all animate at the same time. And right
before the exit, an art piece captivates passersby. A net of bronze raindrops
are suspended from the ceiling by an invisible glass string, moving slowly up
and down, sometimes working as a group to create the effect of rain or a wave,
sometimes acting on their own.

The subway is equally well designed. The font used on signs and the colors used
to label stations and exits convey a sense of sterility, like that of a
hospital. But this is balanced by air-conditioning in the hallways, a bright
odor in the air, marble walls, spacious hallways, and different styles of
artwork at each of the stations, which evoke a feeling of modernism, luxury, and
comfort. Advertisements do not clutter the inside or outside of the subway but
are posted tastefully next to train doors. At the same time, graphics produced
by the city, often featuring some kind of cartoon character, can be seen in
hallways or inside the subway with messages that aim to promote thoughtfulness
in riding, and in so doing, create better citizens. One message stars “Stand-Up
Stacey”, asking people who were sitting in reserved seats to “do the right
thing” and give their seat to an elderly or handicapped citizen on the subway.
Another one stars “Move-In Martin”, with the words “gotta keep movin’ in!”

Outside, the sidewalks are made out of various materials, usually tiled and
always well built. The air smells clean, although it is humid as well, and the
grass is well kept. The city seems to teem with life: bridges are lined with
blooming flowers and avenues are lined with trees or foliage.

The city has a lot of money, and it has spent it in smart ways. For instance,
the river that runs through the city is a perfect backdrop for Clarke Quay, an
affluent, touristy neighborhood. The Botanical Gardens, commanding a glorious
presence in the heart of the city, provide an haven for flora and people alike,
and likely due to the city’s constant attention to the landmark, it is a UNESCO
World Heritage Site.

Everyone seems to follow the rules. Except in some of the cultural regions, such
as Little India, the roads and the people who traverse those roads are well
behaved: cars stop for pedestrians and pedestrians wait for cars. And amazingly,
people hardly find the need to honk.

However, there seem to be more rules and regulations in Singapore than other
cities, with severe consequences for violating them. The most well known
illegality with the severest consequence is the possession, distribution, or
selling of drugs, where the penalty is death by hanging! (There is a mandatory
death penalty for murder also.) On a civil level, fines are issued for offenses
such as littering on the subway or street (S$500) or smoking on the subway
(S$5000), and there are other offenses, such as vandalism, robbery, kidnapping,
and sexual abuse, that are punishable by caning, which is exactly what it
sounds: a flogging by cane. Possibly as a result of the punishments, the city is
very safe, both for men and women, and it is kept clean and orderly.

Lastly, Singapore is a melting pot of many different cultures and languages.
Since it was originally a British city, English is the primary language in print
and speech, and the roads, architecture, and city design contain plenty of
British influence. However, since it was original a trading post, the city has
also been very welcoming of other cultures; Indians, Chinese, Malaysians,
Indonesians, and even Northern Africans have made their home there. So in a way,
it is another America, with perhaps an Southeast Asian tint. As you can imagine,
the food is very varied there, and all of it is good.

So what do I think about Singapore? I think that it is a good place to eat some
good food, enjoy nature, and have a good time. If you are looking to save money,
though, then you might want to look elsewhere, as prices here are rather
expensive compared to the Western world (and even other places in Southeast
Asia).

*Next time, I’ll talk about backpacking through Malaysia, Thailand, Cambodia,
and Vietnam.*
